#### Griffin et al: A rapid review of available evidence on the serial interval and generation time of COVID-19
Abstract:
Background: The serial interval is the time between symptom onsets in an infector-infectee pair. The generation time, also known as the generation interval, is the time between infection events in an infector-infectee pair. The serial interval and the generation time are key parameters for assessing the dynamics of a disease. A number of scientific papers reported information pertaining to the serial interval and/or generation time for COVID-19. 
Objective: Conduct a review of available evidence to advise on appropriate parameter values for serial interval and generation time in national COVID-19 transmission models for Ireland and on methodological issues relating to those parameters.
Methods: We conducted a rapid review of the literature covering the period January 1, 2020 and August 21, 2020, following pre-defined eligibility criteria. Forty scientific papers met our inclusion criteria and were included in the review. 
Results: The mean of the serial interval ranged from 3.03 to 7.6 days, based on 38 estimates, and the median from 1.0 to 6.0 days (based on 15 estimates). Only three estimates were provided for the mean of the generation time. These ranged from 3.95 to 5.20 days. One estimate of 5.0 days was provided for the median of the generation time. 
Discussion: Estimates of the serial interval and the generation time are very dependent on the specific factors that apply at the time that the data are collected, including the level of social contact. Consequently, the estimates may not be entirely relevant to other environments. Therefore, national estimates should be obtained as soon as possible. Careful consideration should be given to the methodology that is used. Real-time estimations of the serial interval/generation time, allowing for variations over time, may provide more accurate estimates of reproduction numbers than using conventionally fixed serial interval/generation time distributions.

##### Casey et al: Pre-symptomatic transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection: a secondary analysis using published data
Abstract:
Objective: To estimate the proportion of pre-symptomatic transmission of SARS-CoV-2 infection that can occur, and the timing of transmission relative to symptom onset.
Setting/design: Secondary analysis of international published data.
Data sources: Meta-analysis of COVID-19 incubation period and a rapid review of serial interval and generation time, which are published separately.
Participants: Data from China, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Italy, Republic of Korea, Singapore and Vietnam.
Methods: Simulations were generated of incubation period and of serial interval or generation time. From these, transmission times relative to symptom onset, and the proportion of pre-symptomatic transmission, were estimated. 
Outcome measures: Transmission time of SARS-CoV-2 relative to symptom onset and proportion of pre-symptomatic transmission. 
Results: Based on 18 serial interval/generation time estimates from 15 papers, mean transmission time relative to symptom onset ranged from -2.6 (95% CI: -3.0, -2.1) days before infector symptom onset in to 1.4 (95% CI: 1.0, 1.8) days after symptom onset. The proportion of pre-symptomatic transmission was substantial in all contexts, ranging from 45.9% (95% CI: 42.9%, 49.0) to 69.1% (95% CI: 66.2%, 71.9%).
Conclusions: There is substantial potential for pre-symptomatic transmission of SARS-CoV-2 across a range of different contexts. This highlights the need for rapid case detection, contact tracing and quarantine. The transmission patterns that we report reflect the combination of biological infectiousness and transmission opportunities which will vary according to context. Rapid isolation of symptomatic cases creates a relatively greater proportion of pre-symptomatic transmission.
